Improved ADR for Registry Cache (#1039)
kyma-project/kyma-infrastructure-manager: docs/adr/003-registry-cache-v2.md

# Context
This document defines the refined architecture and API for enabling registry cache in the Kyma runtime.

# Status
Proposed

# Requirements

- The user should be able to configure the cache for specific image registries.
- Credentials for the image registries should be stored in secrets on SKR, and transferred to Garden cluster.
- The user should be able to view the status of the registry cache configuration.

> - The Gardener extension `registry-cache` will be used to implement the registry cache functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Gardener extension `registry-cache` is used to implement the registry cache functionality.
```

> - In the first phase KIM, will periodically pull the registry cache configuration from SKR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In the first phase, KIM periodically pulls the registry cache configuration from SKR.
```

> - At some point, the Runtime Watcher will be used to trigger events to notify KIM that the configuration changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- At some point, the Runtime Watcher is used to trigger events to notify KIM that the configuration has changed.
```

# Decision

The overall architecture is based on the following proposal: https://github.com/kyma-project/community/issues/992. The following diagram shows the proposed architecture:

![](./assets/caching-in-kim-v2.drawio.svg)

Highlights:

> - The registry cache configuration is stored in the `RegistryCacheConfig` CRD in the SKR cluster. The `RegistryCacheConfig` CRD is a part of the Kyma module.

Reviewer: Exactly. Which module are we talking about?

> - The registry cache configuration is stored in the `RegistryCacheConfig` CRD in the SKR cluster. The `RegistryCacheConfig` CRD is a part of the Kyma module.

Reviewer 2: This is not decided yet. Currently it is part of `kim-snatch` but it is probably not the final solution and will be changed in the future. As initial reviewer of this document I expect this will be updated in next version of this document.

> - The Registry Cache Controller synchronizes the registry cache configuration between the SKR and the Runtime CR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Registry Cache Controller synchronizes the registry cache configuration between SKR and the Runtime CR.
```

- The Runtime Controller:
  - Configures the `registry-cache` extension 

>   - Synchronizes credential secrets between the SKR and the Garden cluster 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Synchronizes credential secrets between SKR and the Garden cluster 
```

>   - Updates the status of the registry cache configuration in the SKR

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Updates the status of the registry cache configuration in SKR
```

>   - Removes credentials secrets from the Garden cluster when the registry cache configuration is removed from the SKR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Removes credential secrets from the Garden cluster when the registry cache configuration is removed from SKR.
```
